Ff151 CSSContainerRules.conditions docs (#43995)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/csscontainerrule/containername/index.md

{{ APIRef("CSSOM") }}

The read-only **`containerName`** property of the {{domxref("CSSContainerRule")}} interface represents the name of the container condition for a container rule that only defines one container condition.
If there are multiple container conditions, the value is set to the empty string.

> This property reflects the value of the name part of the container condition in a corresponding {{cssxref("@container")}} at-rule that has just one container condition.

Reviewer: Feels like this bit should be in a Description section.

Author: It is :-)

For example, the value of `containerName` for the {{cssxref("@container")}} below is `sidebar`:

```css
@container sidebar (width >= 700px) {
  /* Styles */
}
```

> [!NOTE]
> This value has been superseded by {{domxref("CSSContainerRule.conditions")}}, which should be used on supporting browsers.

> > Browsers that do not support `conditions` cannot parse `@container` definitions with multiple container conditions, and no corresponding `CSSContainerRule` can be created.

Reviewer: So, if a browser does support `conditions`, does a `CSSContainerRule` with one condition get represented using the `conditions` property with a single object inside it, or using the `containerName` and `containerQuery` properties? I am still a little confused by this.

Author: With a single condition you get both set - i.e. there is one object in the conditions array and containerName is set. With multiple conditions containerName is set to `""`, or the whole thing falls over because multiple conditions are not supported.

## Value

A string that contains the name of the container condition defined in a container rule, but only if it has just one container condition defined.

If no name is defined, or if the rule defines multiple container conditions, this is the empty string (`""`).

## Examples

### Basic usage

> The example below defines a {{cssxref("@container")}} rule that has just one container condition, and displays the properties of the associated {{domxref("CSSContainerRule")}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example below defines a {{cssxref("@container")}} rule with a single container condition, and displays the properties of the associated {{domxref("CSSContainerRule")}}.
```

The CSS is very similar to that in the `@container` example [Creating named container contexts](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/At-rules/@container#creating_named_container_contexts).

```html hidden
<pre id="log"></pre>
```

```js hidden
const logElement = document.querySelector("#log");
function log(text) {
  logElement.innerText = `${logElement.innerText}${text}\n`;
  logElement.scrollTop = logElement.scrollHeight;
}
```

```css hidden
#log {
  height: 100px;
  overflow: scroll;
  padding: 0.5rem;
  border: 1px solid black;
}
```

#### HTML

> First we define the HTML for a `card` (`<div>`) contained within a `post`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, we define the HTML for a `card` contained within a `post`.
These are represented by two nested {{htmlelement("div")}} elements.
```

{{ APIRef("CSSOM") }}

The read-only **`containerName`** property of the {{domxref("CSSContainerRule")}} interface represents the name of the container condition for a container rule that only defines one container condition.
If there are multiple container conditions, the value is set to the empty string.

## Value

A string that contains the name of the container condition defined in a container rule, but only if it has just one container condition defined.

If no name is defined, or if the rule defines multiple container conditions, this is the empty string (`""`).

## Description

This property reflects the value of the name part of the container condition in a corresponding {{cssxref("@container")}} at-rule that has just one container condition.

For example, the value of `containerName` for the {{cssxref("@container")}} below is `sidebar`:

```css
@container sidebar (width >= 700px) {
  /* Styles */
}
```

> [!NOTE]

> > This value has been superseded by {{domxref("CSSContainerRule.conditions")}}, which should be used on supporting browsers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The `containerName` value has been superseded by {{domxref("CSSContainerRule.conditions")}}, which should be used in supporting browsers.
```

</div>
```

#### CSS

> The CSS for the container element specifies the type of the container, and may also specify a name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CSS for the container element specifies the type of the container along with a name.
```

> The card has a default font size, which is overridden for the `@container` named `sidebar` if the width is greater than 700px.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The card has a default font size, which is overridden for the `@container` named `sidebar` if the `width` is greater than `700px`.
```

</div>
```

#### CSS

The CSS for the container element specifies the type of the container along with a name.

> The card has a default font size, which is overridden for the `@container` named `sidebar` if the `width` is greater than `700px`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The card has a default font size, which is overridden for the `@container` named `sidebar` if its `width` is greater than or equal to `700px`.
```

</style>
```

#### JavaScript

The code below gets the {{domxref("HTMLStyleElement")}} associated with the example using its `id`, and then uses its `sheet` property to get the {{domxref("StyleSheet")}}.
From the `StyleSheet` we get the set of `cssRules` added to the sheet.

> Since we added the `@container` as the third rule above, we can access the associated `CSSContainerRule` using the third entry (index "2"), in the `cssRules`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since we added the `@container` as the third rule above, we can access the associated `CSSContainerRule` using the third entry (index "2") in the `cssRules`.
```

```js
const exampleStylesheet = document.getElementById("example-styles").sheet;
const exampleRules = exampleStylesheet.cssRules;
const containerRule = exampleRules[2]; // a CSSContainerRule representing the container rule.
```

We then use `containerRule` to show the name of the first container condition.
If `CSSContainerRule.conditions` is supported on the browser, we show the name and query from that as well.

```js
log(`CSSContainerRule.containerName: "${containerRule.containerName}"`);

if ("conditions" in CSSContainerRule.prototype) {
  log("CSSContainerRule.conditions:");
  containerRule.conditions.forEach((item) => {
    const jsonString = JSON.stringify(item);
    log(`  ${jsonString}`);
  });
}
```

#### Results

The example output is shown below.
The log section lists the name of the only container condition using `containerName`.

> It shows the name and query using the `conditions` property if supported on this browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It also shows the name and query using the `conditions` property, if supported.
```

> {{EmbedLiveSample("Basic usage","100%","250px")}}

Reviewer: Could do with being a bit taller so that it shows the whole example when the text is double sized.

Author: ```suggestion
{{EmbedLiveSample("Basic usage","100%","300px")}}
```

> Note that the title in the card section should double in size as the width of the page goes over 700px.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the text in the card `<div>` should double in size as the container `width` reaches `700px`, and will halve again as the `width` goes back down below `700px`.
```

### Multiple container conditions

The example below is almost exactly the same as the previous example except that the CSS specifies multiple container conditions.

Note that we've hidden the HTML, as it is the same as in the previous example.

```html hidden
<pre id="log"></pre>
```

```js hidden
const logElement = document.querySelector("#log");
function log(text) {
  logElement.innerText = `${logElement.innerText}${text}\n`;
  logElement.scrollTop = logElement.scrollHeight;
}
```

```css hidden
#log {
  height: 100px;
  overflow: scroll;
  padding: 0.5rem;
  border: 1px solid black;
}
```

```html hidden
<div class="post">
  <div class="card">
    <h2>Card title</h2>
    <p>Card content</p>
  </div>
</div>
```

#### CSS

> The CSS for the container element specifies the type of the container, and may also specify a name.

Reviewer: remove this?

Author: ```suggestion
```

> The card has a default font size, which is overridden for the `@container` named `sidebar` if the width is greater than 700px or if the container has the name `other-name`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The card has a default font size, which is overridden for the `@container` named `sidebar` if the `width` is greater than `700px` or if the container has the name `other-name`.
```

  logElement.scrollTop = logElement.scrollHeight;
}
```

```css hidden
#log {
  height: 100px;
  overflow: scroll;
  padding: 0.5rem;
  border: 1px solid black;
}
```

```html hidden
<div class="post">
  <div class="card">
    <h2>Card title</h2>
    <p>Card content</p>
  </div>
</div>
```

#### CSS

The card has a default font size, which is overridden for the `@container` named `sidebar` if the `width` is greater than `700px` or if the container has the name `other-name`.
Note that this condition is contrived to demonstrate the effect of multiple conditions (it does not affect the behavior of the example).

```html
<style id="example-styles">
  .post {
    container-type: inline-size;
    container-name: sidebar;
  }

  /* Default heading styles for the card title */
  .card h2 {
    font-size: 1em;
  }

  @container sidebar (width >= 700px), other-name {
    .card {
      font-size: 2em;
    }
  }
</style>
```

#### JavaScript

The code below gets the {{domxref("HTMLStyleElement")}} associated with the example using its `id`, and then uses its `sheet` property to get the {{domxref("StyleSheet")}}.
From the `StyleSheet` we get the set of `cssRules` added to the sheet.

> Since we added the `@container` as the third rule above, we can access the associated `CSSContainerRule` using the third entry (index "2"), in the `cssRules`.

Author: ```suggestion
Since we added the `@container` as the third rule above, we can access the associated `CSSContainerRule` using the third entry (index "2") in the `cssRules`.
```

</style>
```

#### JavaScript

The code below gets the {{domxref("HTMLStyleElement")}} associated with the example using its `id`, and then uses its `sheet` property to get the {{domxref("StyleSheet")}}.
From the `StyleSheet` we get the set of `cssRules` added to the sheet.
Since we added the `@container` as the third rule above, we can access the associated `CSSContainerRule` using the third entry (index "2") in the `cssRules`.

```js
const exampleStylesheet = document.getElementById("example-styles").sheet;
const exampleRules = exampleStylesheet.cssRules;
const containerRule = exampleRules[2]; // a CSSContainerRule representing the container rule.
```

> We then use `containerRule` to show the name of the first container condition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We then use `containerRule` to log the name of the first container condition.
```

> If `CSSContainerRule.conditions` is supported on the browser, we show the name and query from that as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the browser supports `CSSContainerRule.conditions`, we show the name and query from that as well.
```

```js
log(`CSSContainerRule.containerName: "${containerRule.containerName}"`);

if ("conditions" in CSSContainerRule.prototype) {
  log("CSSContainerRule.conditions:");
  containerRule.conditions.forEach((item) => {
    const jsonString = JSON.stringify(item);
    log(`  ${jsonString}`);
  });
}
```

#### Results

The example output is shown below.
The log section lists the name of the only container condition using `containerName`.
It also shows the name and query using the `conditions` property, if supported.

{{EmbedLiveSample("Basic usage","100%","300px")}}

Note that the text in the card `<div>` should double in size as the container `width` reaches `700px`, and will halve again as the `width` goes back down below `700px`.

### Multiple container conditions

The example below is almost exactly the same as the previous example except that the CSS specifies multiple container conditions.

> Note that we've hidden the HTML, as it is the same as in the previous example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that we've hidden the HTML because it is the same as in the previous example.
```

```html hidden
<pre id="log"></pre>
```

```js hidden
const logElement = document.querySelector("#log");
function log(text) {
  logElement.innerText = `${logElement.innerText}${text}\n`;
  logElement.scrollTop = logElement.scrollHeight;
}
```

```css hidden
#log {
  height: 100px;
  overflow: scroll;
  padding: 0.5rem;
  border: 1px solid black;
}
```

```html hidden
<div class="post">
  <div class="card">
    <h2>Card title</h2>
    <p>Card content</p>
  </div>
</div>
```

#### CSS

> The card has a default font size, which is overridden for the `@container` named `sidebar` if the `width` is greater than `700px` or if the container has the name `other-name`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The card has a default font size, which is overridden for the `@container` named `sidebar` if its `width` is greater than `700px` or if the container has the name `other-name`.
```

```html
<style id="example-styles">
  .post {
    container-type: inline-size;
    container-name: sidebar;
  }

  /* Default heading styles for the card title */
  .card h2 {
    font-size: 1em;
  }

  @container sidebar (width >= 700px), other-name {
    .card {
      font-size: 2em;
    }
  }
</style>
```

#### JavaScript

The code below gets the {{domxref("HTMLStyleElement")}} associated with the example using its `id`, and then uses its `sheet` property to get the {{domxref("StyleSheet")}}.
From the `StyleSheet` we get the set of `cssRules` added to the sheet.
Since we added the `@container` as the third rule above, we can access the associated `CSSContainerRule` using the third entry (index "2") in the `cssRules`.

```js
const exampleStylesheet = document.getElementById("example-styles").sheet;
const exampleRules = exampleStylesheet.cssRules;
const containerRule = exampleRules[2]; // a CSSContainerRule representing the container rule.
```

The code is slightly different from the previous case because if multiple container conditions are not supported by the browser, the `containerRule` will be `undefined`.

> Instead we only log the value of `containerName` if the browser supports multiple container conditions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We therefore only log the value of `containerName` if the browser supports multiple container conditions — it will be the empty string.
```
